Some of the most successful candidates sell experiences.
They don't sell themselves.
They don't sell their skills.
They help the hiring manager associate them with a happy memory.
And that's what compels the hiring manager to call them back.
That said, welcome to the eighth video of this masterclass, which is about creating an elevator pitch.
In the previous video, we saw how to create a cover letter and a thank you note and the importance
of both of them.
Now, that said, an elevator pitch is essentially a 62nd pitch on what separates you from your competitors,
what separates you from the rest of the candidates applying for the same position?
And why is it 60 seconds?
Think about it as you and a hiring manager in a hypothetical situation in an elevator and you get in
at the same floor or you're getting off at the same floor.
So let's say you have 60 seconds to convey what makes you special and.
You have to focus on three things here.
Who you are.
What your experience is about and most importantly, what separates you from your competitors?
What value do you bring to the company?
What value do you bring to the position that no one else would?
So that's it.
I like to separate my elevator pitches into two different types a stock elevator pitch and a job specific
elevator pitch.
A stock elevator pitch.
You must create memorize it so that even if someone wakes you from deep sleep, you should still be
able to recite it without any problems.
And that's the kind of mastery that should that you should have for your elevator pitch.
There is good reason for this is because when.
Almost every interview starts off with Tell me about yourself.
You need to be prepared to set the tone for the rest of the interview.
And the elevator pitch is the single most important thing that helps you accomplish that you will talk
about in the in the stock elevator pitch.
You can talk about what your name is and how many years of education or experience you have.
Things like that.
Mention one.
Key data driven accomplishment that a hiring manager might find useful for a job specific elevator pitch.
We work under the assumption that you've been invited to an interview, and your elevator pitch is tailored
to that particular job at that particular company.
So it changes slightly.
You do not need to include your name anymore because they know you're there.
They reviewed your resume.
They know who you are.
But you can include your education and your experience and the key accomplishment that separates you
from from the rest of them.
Now, as far as what values you bring to the company are concerned.
You can talk about things like how you match up with the core values of the company.
You can talk about some of the key words and tie them to your resume just like you did while creating
your resume.
You can use that in the elevator pitch as well.
A good example would be something like I have a bachelor's degree in finance and over the course of
seven years I've learned enough skills to help me overhaul the payroll system at my previous employer,
and that saved the company $100,000.
This is a hypothetical situation, but you can see how overhauling the payroll system and saving the
company $100,000 would actually benefit them.
And this would spark enough curiosity with the listener that they would want to know more about how
you did that.
So that sets the tone for the rest of the interview.
So have two elevator pitches, one job specific and one stock elevator pitch.
And for every interview it is advisable to change your job specific elevator pitch.
Thank you.
I hope I was able to add value.
I look forward to seeing you in the next video.